# Entities:
This folder contains representations of the main components MedPerf is based on. This components are used for the purposes of preparing a dataset and executing a benchmark on such dataset.

## Contents:
- ### __Benchmark__:
  Class representing a Benchmark

  A benchmark is a bundle of assets that enables quantitative 
  measurement of the performance of AI models for a specific 
  clinical problem. A Benchmark instance contains information
  regarding how to prepare datasets for execution, as well as
  what models to run and how to evaluate them.
- ### __Cube__:
  Class representing an MLCube Container

  Medperf platform uses the MLCube container for components such as
  Dataset Preparation, Evaluation, and the Registered Models. MLCube 
  containers are software containers (e.g., Docker and Singularity) 
  with standard metadata and a consistent file-system level interface. 
- ### __Dataset__:
  Class representing a Dataset

  Datasets are stored locally in the Data Owner's machine. They contain
  information regarding the prepared dataset, such as name and description,
  general statistics and an UID generated by hashing the contents of the 
  data preparation output.
- ### __Registration__:
  Class representing a Dataset Registration

  A Registration object represents a prepared dataset that hasn't
  yet been registered on the platform. It contains the procedures
  required to successfully submit a dataset entry.
- ### __Result__:
  Class representing a Result entry

  Results are obtained after successfully running a benchmark
  execution flow. They contain information regarding the 
  components involved in obtaining metrics results, as well as the
  results themselves. This class provides methods for working with
  benchmark results and how to upload them to the backend.